Access to Knowledge and Data   Philipp Kats   3/28/16   Title of the Course: Access to Knowledge and Data   Duration: First semester (First Year)   Total hours: 76 hours   Author/lecturer: Philipp Kats, Egor Kotov   Invited speakers: Elena Korotkova, Polina Kolozaridi1  GENERAL DESCRIBTIONVirtually all design today is research-based. From web-service design to a new public space layout, every contemporary project collects and analyses data, investigates contexts and tests design solutions with research. As a multidisciplinary holistic practice Urban Design crosses Urban studies, Architectural Design, Urban planning, and a few other disciplines. Therefore, Urban design requires the research-based approach perhaps even more than any other discipline.   Type of the research, however, can vary from case to case, depending on the specific task, context, timeframe and objectives of the Project. How to choose the right methodology for a particular research? How to identify relevant experts and reliable sources effectively, even in the unfamiliar environment? How to access, obtain, structure, assess and store information in the most convenient and quick way? How to think critically and make conceptual conclusions based on proper data analysis?   This course helps student navigate the vast and, at times, murky sea of information – both online and off-line, – indicating safe point of access and giving tips on research structuring. We will talk about research ethics, questions, objectives, planning and management. Students will work with a range of research methodologies, including qualitative and quantative analyses, and will learn how to sequence research and design objectives to achieve best results.   At the end of the course, students are required to present a group research project on the defined subject.    1.1  MethodologyThe course is designed to close the gap between pure academic research course and  urban planning. It explains various research methods relevant to Urban Design practice and basic rules of information processing, while also providing general knowledge on what urban data is and where to find the relevant datasets. The course consists of the two main parts: a) General skill-set (4 weeks) and b) Urban research (3 weeks). Each part will be supported by the set of practical labs, seminars and research assignments, including the midterm and final projects.1.2  Formats1.2.1  LecturesLectures will mainly cover the theory, but will also present certain general techniques and tools, which will be further explained during practical seminars.1.2.2  SeminarsDuring weekly seminars students will discuss themes presented during lectures and will also meet experts on information technologies.1.2.3  Practical labsLabs will cover practical research skills through hands-on exercises. Labs will require a personal computer for each student. Students will be asked to do practical assignments, such as information collection, exploration, and analysis. All take-home assignments and research projects will be based on skills and techniques, covered in the class.1.2.4  Midterm presentationMidterm research project will be produced in teams of 2-4 students and will require a team to set up a problem, collect information, perform analysis and come up with recommendations or conclusions in the format of coherent presentation. In many ways, it is designed to be a dry run before the final project.1.2.5  Final projectFinal research project will be produced in teams of 2-4 and will require students to set up a problem, collect information, perform an analysis and come up with some recommendations or conclusions in the format of presentation.1.3  Main goals of the courseThe main goals of the course is to:•	gain a solid background in acquiring information and data and development of an information-based product. •	gain hands-on experience with urban data and statistics•	gain understanding on how data is used in decision making and urban management    After successful completion of the course, the students will know and will be able to:•	efficiently search for information using both online and offline sources•	understand, which questions data can give answers for •	understand, how to set main goals and objectives of the research •	know international, country-wide and local sources of urban-related information•	search, document, aggregate and process information and data•	document and manage queries and collected information •	conduct basic visual and statistical analysis •	interpret data, create stories out of it and express findings visually •	plan the project research properly and choose the right methodology 1.4  MultidisciplinarityThe course will provide a general set of skills and knowledge to use in any field of research, with a focus on urban data and information, such as geospatial data, municipal finance, and administrative structure of Russian cities, land use laws and regulations, and etc. It does not require any prior knowledge nor skill set. On the other hand, it is designed to fulfill most of the fields or specialization from design to urban economics due to its multidisciplinary and hands-on approach. Knowledge and skills, aquired during the course, will help students in their study and practice, offering a base framework for the research, applicable in a wide range of cases from sociological and cultural studies to large scale quantitative analysis.1.5  Connections to other courses and project modules of the ProgramThis course is a prerequisite for the “Metropolitan data” course. However, acquired skills will be of use in most of the other courses. 1.6  Specific RequirementsStudents are required to bring their laptops.   The course will require a list of free software installed in advance. List with all the software as well as instructions will be published later.2  STRUCTURE AND THEMATIC COMPOSITION2.1  Originality of the courseOn the contrary to the pure data-oriented courses as well as urban planning courses, the class will provide students with the unique combination of basic skills, vital for practical research purposes.2.2  Thematic structure2.2.1  Theme 1. Research-based Design•	Total hours: 6 hours •	Lectures: 4 hours •	Seminars: •	Individual Workload: 2 hours 2.2.2  Theme 2. Obtaining the information•	Total hours: 24 hours •	Lectures: 6 hours •	Seminars: 8 hours •	Individual Workload: 14 hours 2.2.3  Theme 3. Designing Research•	Total hours: 20 hours •	Lectures: 6 hours •	Seminars: 4 hours •	Individual Workload: 10 hours 2.2.4  Theme 4. Urban Stats•	Total hours: 22 hours •	Lectures: 6 hours •	Seminars: 4 •	Individual Workload: 10 hours 2.2.5  Theme 5. Data stories•	Total hours: 16 hours•	Lectures: 4 hours •	Seminars: 2 hours •	Individual Workload: 10 hours 2.2.6  Theme 6. Data product•	Total hours: 36 hours•	Lectures: 8 hours •	Labs: 18 hours •	Individual Workload: 10 hours 2.3  Themes per week or visit:•	Week 1: Research-based Design •	Week 2: Gathering Information •	Week 3: Designing Research •	Week 5: Urban stats, Data stories •	Week 8,9,10: Data product 3  COURSE CONTENT3.1  Research-based DesignPhilipp Kats   In these lectures, we are going to talk through the course, discuss how research can influence and compliment the design for the city, and define the general conceptual framework of the research-based design. Using DIKW Hierarchy framework, we will create a general structure of the research, discuss research questions and objectives, research ethics, planning and management.      Topics•	research definiton. research objectives. •	types of research. •	research-based design •	research ethics and requirements •	stages of the research •	research frame and structure. DIKW model and MECE principle •	research toolbox: research log, notes and collaboration    Educational Formats•	lecture •	seminar    Practical Assignment      Students will be required to:   •	find and discuss the real-life example of research in design process. •	deliver your findings as a text for peer review Bibliography* Fallman, D. (2007). Why research-oriented design isn’t design-oriented research: On the tensions between design and research in an implicit design discipline. Knowledge, Technology & Policy, 20(3), 193–200.* Whyte, W. H. (1980). The social life of small urban spaces. (video)3.2  Obtaining the informationPhilipp Kats, Polina Kolosaridi   While collecting the information is only the first stage of research, it might critically influence both the structure and the content of the study, and often takes more than a half of the time to accomplish. We’ll cover main sources and approaches, typologically ranging from google research and interviews up to big data analysis and large-scale census surveys.         Topics•	types of information •	sources and techniques •	table studies: “google-research”, bibliography, archives, data analysis •	field studies: inerview, experts, survey, observation and sensors •	analysis •	research toolbox: Zotero and Authorea •	information gathering assigment       Educational Formats•	lecture •	practical lab       Practical Assignment   Students will be required to:   1.	facilitate in teams a small-scale research on the chosen subject 2.	articulate the potential of different techniques and methods of research in the particular case. 3.	present findings as a text for peer review. Bibliography* Bradshaw, Paul. “Scraping for journalists.” Onlinejournalismblog, Leanpub(2013). * Rowley, J. E. (2007). The wisdom hierarchy: representations of the DIKW hierarchy. Journal of Information Science3.3  Designing ResearchPhilipp Kats, Elena Korotkova   Thoughtful and preplanned inner structure of the research is vital for its success. This is especially true if you are planning to use research outcomes in practice right away. During these lectures, we’ll discuss how to plan your research in advance, record your actions and keep it reproducible.      Topics•	expected outputs •	metodology and techniques •	exploratory phase •	analysis and interpretation •	causation and probability •	iterative research •	cases and examples •	research toolset: command line and version control, excel and tableau    Educational Formats•	lecture •	practical lab    Practical Assignment      Students will be required to:1.	design a general scheme of research on topic, articulating it’s scalability as a function of time, using one or several approaches, covered in the lecture 2.	facilitate a small-scale version of research, exploring mechanics of group collaboration and research documentation. 3.	present their findings through a slide presentation for peer review. Bibliography* Eco, Umberto, “How to write a thesis”, MIT Press, 2015 * Leedy, Paul D., and Jeanne Ellis Ormrod. “Practical research.” Planning and design 8 (2005). * Rasiel, E. M. (1999). The McKinsey Way. New York: McGraw-Hill.3.4  Urban StatisticsElena Korotkova   While “urban data” sounds more or less precise, to understand the actual landscape of urban data one need to dig into the structure of city’s governing body, as its composition will have a great impact over data available and its specifics. We will also compare datasets offered in Russia to the ones made accessible by other countries.      Topics•	data types •	urban statistics •	open data and urban management •	enterprise data •	data and metodology •	cases and applications •	research toolbox: import.io, kimono, python, jupyther and github    Educational Formats•	lecture •	practical lab    Practical Assignment   Students will be required to:1.	design and articulate general research scheme and research questions 2.	discuss possible sources of information and data 3.	perform data collection, processing and basic analysis of the data collected 4.	deliver findings in the form of slideshow presentation and research archive for a peer review. Bibliography* MAS NYC, Who Gets It Done & How. 2015* Jeffery T. Leek, Roger D. Peng. “What is the question?” Science 20 Mar 2015: Vol. 347, Issue 6228, pp. 1314-1315* Páez, A., & Scott, D. M. (2005). Spatial statistics for urban analysis: a review of techniques with examples. GeoJournal, 61(1), 53–67.3.5  Data storiesPhilipp Kats, Guest Speaker:TBD   Good research is always worth a story. On the other hand, “The medium is the message”, or, in other words, any format has it’s influence over the content, it has its strenghts, weaknesses and requirements. During the session we’ll discuss different formats for your story, from scientific article and visualization to movie clip or graphical poster. We will overview multiple examples of research representation, and discuss, how good representation can benefit both research and design.      Topic•	reading the data •	interpretation •	data story narrative •	errors and caveats •	research toolbox: visualisation and storytelling    Educational Formats•	lecture •	seminar    Practical Assignment      Students will be required to:1.	using one of previously done micro-researches, acticulate the range of storytelling possibilities basing on the research. 2.	deliver at least two stories in different formats on the same research. Those might be an article/essay, clip, poster, slideshow presentation, or any other proper format. 3.	articulate their choice, its advantages and disadvantages. Bibliography* Bradshaw, Paul. “Finding Stories in Spreadsheets.” Onlinejournalismblog, Leanpub(2013) * Gray, Jonathan, Lucy Chambers, and Liliana Bounegru. The data journalism handbook. " O’Reilly Media, Inc.“, 2012. 3.6  Data productEgor Kotov   Data analysis and exploration are very important on it’s own, yet the format and its practical implementation of its outcome might vary - from a paper report or policy recommendation to autonomous decision-making system. Data product part will articulate what data product can be and how to develop one. We will also spend time on practical tools and methods, including some programming and geospatial techniques, that students can find useful during their final research.         Topics•	processing and visualisation •	correlation, prediction and likelihood •	introduction to geoinformatics and GIS •	spatial analysis •	coding with R/Python    Educational Formats•	lecture •	practical lab •	project research    Practical assignment   Students will be required to:1.	collect data, using automated tools and techniques 2.	process and clean the data 3.	facilitate the exploratory phase of the research, preparing a general report on the dataset 4.	create several visual representations of dataset, including spatial representation. 5.	create a consequent narrative, discussing the research, it’s hypotesis, data, metods, and findings. Bibliography* Caffo, B. (2015). Developing Data Products in R. Leanpub. * Patil, D. J. Data Jujitsu. " O’Reilly Media, Inc.“, 2012 4  GRADING4.1  Explanation of the grading systemOverall grade will be calculated as a summary of articles below:1.	Homework Assignments: 30% 2.	Midterm Research Project and Presentation: 30% 3.	Final research project and presentation: 40% 4.2  Description of the intermediate check-ins and of the final exam.4.2.1  HomeworkSeveral homework assignments will be presented during the course. Each will be required to submit in the format of presentation (small in-class presentation) or paper, either individually or in groups.4.2.2  Midterm Research Project and PresentationMidterm research project will be held in teams of  2-4 and will require teams to set up a problem, collect information, perform an analysis and come with some recommendations or conclusions in the format of presentation. In many ways, it is designed to be a dry run before the final project. At the same time, this assignment will take a few days to finish. List of topics will be predefined in advance.4.2.3 Final projectFinal research project will be held in teams of 2-4 and will require students to collect information, set up a problem, perform an analysis and come with some recommendations or conclusions in the format of presentation. 